Ah! Wait. Are you making curry for us?
Shinpei's famous curry?
Aah!
(groans)
Ushioh?
Really? This again? Hey.
Why do you look like you just saw a ghost?
You're only supposed
to appear on the 24th!
Huh? Wait. How would you know that?
Huh?
Listen, Shinpei.
This might be kinda hard to believe,
but something terrible happens
on the 24th.
USHIOH: Everyone at the festival
gets swallowed up
by some black shadow monster.
SHINPEI: Uh... Wait a sec, you...
Did you come from the summer festival too?
-USHIOH: Huh? Uh, wait a second, did you?
-(door opens)
(Mio sighs)
I just washed my eyes,
I feel a lot better now.
(gasps)
Uh, what... what is it?
MIO: That smell!
Are you making your curry?
SHINPEI (stammers): Yes.
MIO: Aah! I should've thought of that.
-(stomach rumbles)
-Aah!
Shin-chan! Your stomach is rumbling!
You're just like Sis.
Thank goodness.
That means you're feeling better.
Uh, I guess so.
SHINPEI: Calm down, calm down.
Just try to focus on making the curry.
I... I can't believe this. This is bad.
Oh, god, Ms. Nagumo, this isn't
just some insignificant difference.
(chuckles)
(door opens)
ALAIN: Ah, hey, sorry I took so long
to get back, Shinpei.
That Mr. Karikiri sure can talk.
SHINPEI: Welcome back. It's almost done.
-Mio.
-Hm?
Aren't you supposed
to be helping with the cooking?
Come on, don't be silly,
my only job is eating!
ALAIN: Boy, that smells great.
Ushio always used to love that.
SHINPEI: Five minutes from now,
Alain does the laundry,
Mio goes to the bathroom.
Go to my room, but be careful.
Don't be seen.
Mm!
SHINPEI: Does she have any idea
what's going on here?
FAKE CALL TO TOTSUMURA
TELL SOU I'LL CALL HIM TOMORROW
SHINPEI: Okay. All done!
MIO: Hey, where are you going?
SHINPEI: Ugh! Uh, I'm going to eat
in my room.
Why two plates?
Ugh! Well, I'm just super hungry.
(nervous laughter)
(theme music)
-Curry! Curry!
-(Shinpei gasps)
-SHINPEI: That's the...
-Curry!
-...the curry chant!
-Curry! Curry, ha-ha-ha!
-Chef Shinpei...
-SHINPEI: Goddamn it.
-Why is this happening?
-USHIOH: ...hurry with the curry!
Don't let the shadows trick you
with their outward appearance, Shinpei.
(shrieks)
(breathes sharply)
Can I eat?
SHINPEI: Sure.
All right! Thank you for this meal!
SHINPEI: Somehow, this shadow managed
to loop back with me this time.
-Yummy!
-SHINPEI: That has to be what happened.
Wait. How exactly did you get here?
Huh? I just walked, you dummy.
I woke up right in the middle
of Omotohama Beach.
But don't worry. I'm sure no one saw me.
MIO: It's a monster!
USHIOH: I guess I am a lot like a monster.
I'll make sure no one sees me again.
Like a monster? No. No, that's...
that's not... not true.
Huh? What was that?
Did you just do something?
I felt something! It tickled!
Ah... No. I'm sorry.
(Ushioh groans)
God, I got goose bumps.
SHINPEI: I can kill it.
Just stab its shadow. Just do it.
(munches)
Mmm!
SHINPEI: This'd be the perfect moment.
It's totally off guard.
But now that I think about it,
it did basically save me that time.
(giggling)
Mmm!
SHINPEI: What the...
USHIO: Tokyo?
SHINPEI: Alain has a friend
who's lived there for a while.
I'm going to stay there
and go to culinary school.
I won't do high school in Wakayama.
USHIO: Wait, seriously?
SHINPEI: I made up my mind.
USHIO: You never told me any of this.
SHINPEI: It's not like I need
to tell you, do I?
How can you make
a decision like that by yourself?
I don't understand
why I can't decide for myself?
The truth is, I'm not a Kofune.
I have to be my own person.
I just need to go out there
and start making a living on my own.
I'm done being a constant burden
to you and Alain! I'm done!
A burden?
USHIO: Do you hate it here that much?
Huh? Why'd you say that?
SHINPEI: It's not that, Ushio.
Forget it!
-I didn't even have to tell you!
-SHINPEI: Listen, I... I...
-You know what? You forget it!
-SHINPEI: I love you.
(Ushio grunts)
(gasps)
SHINPEI: I don't want us
to become family this way.
Not brother and sister.
(waves crashing)
USHIO: Hey, Shinpei.
Today is your last day, right?
I want Shinpei's famous curry for dinner.
Huh? I really need
to finish packing, okay?
SHINPEI: Next time, though.
USHIO: You big dummy.
SHINPEI: But there was no next time.
At least, that's what I thought.
You finally made your curry for me.
I'm so glad.
I'm so glad I got to eat your curry again.
I'm glad I'm alive.
You like it?
Look, seconds!
USHIOH: To be honest with you,
it's just not as good when Dad makes it.
I really like yours, Shinpei,
it's the best.
SHINPEI: This has to be Ushio.
She's Ushio.
(stomach rumbles)
That's good. I'm glad.
USHIOH: Hey, Shinpei. Do you think
the same thing will happen on the 24th?
SHINPEI: Yeah. I think so.
And I'm going to try to stop it.
-USHIOH: I wanna help too.
-Huh?
I can't stand by and do nothing
while the summer festival gets ruined
by that monster.
And I can't let Mio
and the others disappear.
That's right. Me too.
We will do it together!
Mm!
Can you analyze and copy humans?
Ah! Hmm...
Ha!
SHINPEI: Okay, I guess not.
HIZURU: Current time is 8:45 p. m.
Mio's shadow should appear
in about ten minutes.
How are things going over there?
NEZU: All clear so far.
Just a breeze coming off the water.
Looks like there's plenty
of light in town tonight.
You hear from Shinpei?
HIZURU: Nothing yet.
NEZU: You can't rely too much
on what he's seen
in other loops, Ryunosuke.
Prey never moves the way you expect it to,
no matter what plans you make.
Even the best hunters
constantly need to adapt.
HIZURU: Roger that.
(cell phone buzzes)
SHINPEI: It's from Ms. Nagumo.
Should I mention Ushioh to her?
Or should I just lie?
But I...
-USHIOH: Shinpei?
-Uh, yeah?
Why are you still dressed like that?
It's weird to wear a swimsuit
in the house.
-Huh? Oh, yeah. Wait, why didn't...
-(static)
Why didn't it bother me until just now?
That's weird.
-Uh, hey!
-Huh?
What the hell did you do?
SHINPEI: It wasn't me!
USHIOH: My swimsuit disappeared!
What happened? What the...
Is it because you copied the swimsuit?
USHIOH: Whatever!
Just give me something to wear!
(eerie music)
Huh? Mio's shadow is coming?
Did you lock up?
SHINPEI: We'll be fine.
Honestly, locking up
won't help much, anyway.
A shadow can slip in
through the tiniest gap
in a window or wall.
Seriously? Hang on, I want to try!
(grunting)
SHINPEI: It's fine, don't worry.
If I remember correctly,
it hasn't come in here.
Not even once.
(knocks on door)
MIO: Shin-chan?
-It's Mio! Quick, hide!
-(gasps)
(Ushioh groans)
-Did you finish eating?
-Huh?
I wanna wash the dishes for you.
SHINPEI: Ah, the dishes. Sure thing.
MIO: Uh, you all done?
Why did you use two spoons?
-(both grunt)
-MIO: Two glasses too.
Huh? Is that weird or something?
Nope, it's not weird at all!
MIO: Answering your own question?
Hang on a sec, Sis isn't here, is she?
(grunts)
I get it. You made this bowl for her,
didn't you, Shin-chan?
Aah...
MIO: She's definitely here, isn't she?
MIO: Legend says
that on the island of Hitogashima,
lost souls return home
as guardian spirits.
Mr. Karikiri always said that.
Ah... You can just leave the bowls.
I'll wash them later, Mio.
Mm. Thanks for the meal, Shin-chan.
Man, oh, man. That was a close one.
Mio really does have good instincts.
Whoa! Oh, god!
What... What is it? You forget something?
SHINPEI: What the...
It's not...
(gasps)
(splatters)
(foreboding music)
Ushioh!
That hurt!
(grunts)
(tense music)
(groans)
(yells)
(panting)
SHINPEI: There's no way
I can beat it in a fight.
But if I'm going to die, anyway,
I have to try.
Just try! I have to do everything I can!
Come on, Mioh. I'm taking you down!
Shin... Shinpei.
MIOH: Hey, Sis, why are you
on Shin-chan's side?
He's with Nezu and Minakata,
they kill shadows.
So the fake ones
don't have the same instincts.
I love Shinpei. He's family.
Go ahead, tell me what's wrong
with helping someone I love?
(sighs)
But you died, didn't you?
MIOH: My sister died that day.
You already died!
Shin...
(gunshot)
(screeches)
(grunts)
-NEZU: What did I tell you?
-(cocks gun)
(panting)
-MIOH: It... I... It hurts...
-(static)
Why would you do this, Shin-chan?
One other thing. Shin-chan, listen.
(Shinpei exhales sharply)
(grunts)
(Shinpei breathes heavily)
(gasps)
Ushioh. Hey, come on, stay with me.
-Ushioh!
-HIZURU: I'm coming in.
(gasps)
Wait, Ms. Nagumo...
(Shinpei grunts)
Shinpei, why are you getting in my way?
HIZURU: I'm really glad you to see
that you're safe.
But look at that thing.
It's clearly a shadow.
Now, move, so I can kill it.
I... I won't!
Hey. Did that shadow get into your head?
Didn't I tell you the longer
you talk to them,
the easier they can trick you?
I know you have a deep grudge
against shadows in general,
and you're determined to hunt down
every last one.
But listen, this one wound up
protecting me twice, it sacrificed itself.
The shadow is so irrational.
It doesn't even think before it acts.
You know what that means, right?
That means it has to be Ushio!
Ms. Nagumo, I beg you, please promise me
you'll treat her injuries
like my broken arm!
-(head thuds)
-Please help it, I'm begging you!
This is unbelievable.
Letting a shadow go is one thing,
but going out of your way
to heal it is another.
If you side with the shadows,
then I'll have to kill you too.
Okay, fine.
The next time I loop back,
I'll be sure to talk you out
of killing of her shadow.
-USHIOH: Shinpei.
-Uh...
(gasps)
Mio? Is the real Mio okay?
Oh, um... I...
-HIZURU: The real one is in the bath.
-(gasps)
I checked on her already.
SHINPEI: What? Really?
All right. That's great.
HIZURU: She does have the same voice.
USHIO: Nagu... Can you hear me?
HIZURU: That's the voice
that brought me to this island.
So I guess we should adapt? Okay, fine.
HIZURU: Show me where you're hurt.
HIZURU: The person who sent me
that message was Ushio Kofune.
(Ushioh grunts)
Huh? No way! Wait! Wait, it's gone!
Look, my arm disappeared!
Ushioh?
Wait. It doesn't hurt.
That injury is a projection
of the damage felt by the actual shadow.
Normal treatment won't be able to heal it.
-So be careful of--
-Nah, it's cool. It doesn't hurt at all.
You got over that way too quick.
HIZURU: You've grown up a lot
since I last saw you.
My name's Hizuru Minakata.
You probably don't remember me.
HIZURU: I used to come
to Bistro Kofune a lot.
Huh? Really?
Sorry, I don't remember.
HIZURU: Here, listen to this.
-USHIO: Summer festival...
-USHIOH: Huh?
USHIO: Killed by shadows...
And only Shin... Shinpei Ajiro
can stop it.
Please, I need help.
-Please, please. Help me.
-Oh.
Does this message sound familiar?
What is that? It sounded like my voice.
This is the reason I came here.
So you really don't remember this at all?
Mm.
I see. All right, then.
Just forget about it.
We've got a bigger problem right now.
Why did the shadow Mio
go inside the Kofune's place at all?
The shadow Mio knew
that Shiori was done for.
Apparently, they're sharing information.
The shadow Mio was aware of us
and decided to get rid of us.
It was after Nezu and I
had already joined forces,
but then it found out
that Shinpei was with us too.
So the shadow Mio entered
your house determined to kill Shinpei.
Is it because I went
with you to Koba Mart?
But how did it find out?
SHINPEI: We killed all the shadows
we could find when we got there.
In any case, I don't think
I can work alongside you anymore.
At least, as long as you stay
with Ushio's shadow.
This version of Ushio
may have saved your life,
and it might not seem
like it's a threat to us.
HIZURU: But if she's just a shadow
that's temporarily broken,
we don't know when she might get fixed.
Listen to what she's saying, Shinpei.
That's the most we can do.
-SHINPEI: Ms. Nagumo!
-Hm?
Listen to me, at three tomorrow,
Mio's shadow will try to kill you
in Shinju Forest.
We killed one Shadow Mio,
but there could be others.
Be careful. Please don't get killed.
We can change our destinies.
And this is a chance for us to prove it.
BISTRO KOFUNE
LUNCH SPECIALS
ALARM
SNOOZE, STOP
-USHIOH: Shinpei.
-Uh...
Good morning.
Oh, wait, you're awake?
Man, I'm really hungry.
I'm pretty thirsty too.
Hang on, I'll bring you something.
Thanks!
Oh, yeah.
Mm-hm. Thanks a lot, Tokiko.
I definitely feel better.
Oh, no, I'm sorry I kept you up.
Yeah. Goodbye.
Huh?
Good morning, Shin-chan.
Obviously I'm up already,
so you don't have to come wake me.
Uh, okay. Got it?
Uh, okay.
SHINPEI: She can't come wake me
if I'm already up.
MIO: Hang on, Shin-chan!
(gasps)
Mio gave you this?
Yeah. That's the original necklace.
The original.
Does it make you
remember anything, Ushioh?
Like, maybe before you died?
Uh...
SHINPEI: Will just you think
about it for me?
USHIOH: Wait, where are you going?
SHINPEI: We're opening
the restaurant today.
USHIOH: Oh, okay. Sounds a lot like Dad.
SHINPEI: Yeah, the restaurant
is always there.
It has to stay exactly the same.
Alain always said that.
It's my job to protect
these simple, everyday rituals.
Hey, Shinpei! Sorry.
Did I come a little early?
(crickets chirping)
-Sorry about that.
-Oh.
-Take it.
-What the...
It's super sunny today.
SHINPEI: Come on. Just take one.
What's up with you? You're such a weirdo.
I'm not going to beat around the bush.
I need to tell you something.
It's actually about Ushio's death.
Mm.
Ligature marks, right? It turns out,
someone might have killed me.
That's right.
(stammers)
Who the hell are you?
SHINPEI:
Ushioh, you can lose the disguise.
SOU: Huh? Ushio?
Ah... No, god! It... It can't be...
(terrified groan)
SOU: Ushio!
Yo.
USHIOH: I think he froze.
SHINPEI:
Eventually, we told Sou everything.
He sat there quietly and listened
to everything we had to say.
SOU: Sorry. If only I had done...
done more to save her life that day...
If only... I just...
I know regrets like this
will never bring her back!
But, please, please just...
Hit me! If you don't...
-I'm gonna--
-(grunts)
-Nailed it!
-(body thuds)
Stand up, Sou.
-Do you feel better now? Do you?
-(groaning)
Listen to me,
we're relying on you here, okay?
Quit whining, pull it together!
The private beach behind
the elementary school.
USHIOH: Here it is. This is where I died.
So she really doesn't remember it?
Mm-hm.
USHIOH: Oh! Hey, that's my phone.
I wanted to see what's on it,
but I guess it's locked.
(cell phone buzzes)
-Huh? The password changed.
-(cell phone beeps)
-Oh, it opened.
-(gasps)
By fingerprint.
Check your email, memos,
photos, anything could help.
Huh? Friday was the 20th, right?
There's a video file from the morning
of the day before I died.
SHINPEI: That's it!
USHIOH: Hold on. We should watch it.
(closing theme music)